README.md, before:

# SwiftLog

A Logging API package for Swift. Version `1.0.0` requires Swift 5.0 but there is a version `0.x.y` series available for Swift 4 to ease your transition towards Swift 5. If you intend to use or support SwiftLog for Swift 4, please check the [paragraph](#help-i-need-swift-4) at the end of the document.

First things first: This is the beginning of a community-driven open-source project actively seeking contributions, be it code, documentation, or ideas. Apart from contributing to `SwiftLog` itself, there's another huge gap at the moment: `SwiftLog` is an _API package_ which tries to establish a common API the ecosystem can use. To make logging really work for real-world workloads, we need `SwiftLog`-compatible _logging backends_ which then either persist the log messages in files, render them in nicer colors on the terminal, or send them over to Splunk or ELK.

What `SwiftLog` provides today can be found in the [API docs][api-docs].

## Getting started

If you have a server-side Swift application, or maybe a cross-platform (for example Linux & macOS) app/library, and you would like to log, we think targeting this logging API package is a great idea. Below you'll find all you need to know to get started.

#### Adding the dependency

`SwiftLog` is designed for Swift 5, the `1.0.0` release requires Swift 5 (however we will soon tag a `0.x` version that will work with Swift 4 for the transition period). To depend on the logging API package, you need to declare your dependency in your `Package.swift`:

```swift
.package(url: "https://github.com/apple/swift-log.git", from: "1.0.0"),
```

and to your application/library target, add `"Logging"` to your `dependencies`, e.g. like this:

```swift
.target(name: "BestExampleApp", dependencies: ["Logging"]),
```

#### Let's log

```swift
// 1) let's import the logging API package
import Logging

// 2) we need to create a logger, the label works similarly to a DispatchQueue label
let logger = Logger(label: "com.example.BestExampleApp.main")

// 3) we're now ready to use it
logger.info("Hello World!")
```

#### Output

```
2019-03-13T15:46:38+0000 info: Hello World!
```

#### Default `Logger` behavior

`SwiftLog` provides for very basic console logging out-of-the-box by way of `StreamLogHandler`. It is possible to switch the default output to `stderr` like so:
```swift
LoggingSystem.bootstrap(StreamLogHandler.standardError)
```

`StreamLogHandler` is primarily a convenience only and does not provide any substantial customization. Library maintainers who aim to build their own logging backends for integration and consumption should implement the `LogHandler` protocol directly as laid out in [the "On the implementation of a logging backend" section](#on-the-implementation-of-a-logging-backend-a-loghandler).

For further information, please check the [API documentation][api-docs].

<a name="backends"></a>
#### Selecting a logging backend implementation (applications only)

As the API has just launched, not many implementations exist yet. If you are interested in implementing one see the "Implementation considerations" section below explaining how to do so. List of existing SwiftLog API compatible libraries:

| Repository | Handler Description|
| ----------- | ----------- |
| [IBM-Swift/HeliumLogger](https://github.com/IBM-Swift/HeliumLogger)  |a logging backend widely used in the Kitura ecosystem |
| [ianpartridge/swift-log-**syslog**](https://github.com/ianpartridge/swift-log-syslog) | a [syslog](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog) backend|
| [Adorkable/swift-log-**format-and-pipe**](https://github.com/Adorkable/swift-log-format-and-pipe) | a backend that allows customization of the output format and the resulting destination |
| [chrisaljoudi/swift-log-**oslog**](https://github.com/chrisaljoudi/swift-log-oslog) | an OSLog [Unified Logging](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/os/logging) backend for use on Apple platforms. **Important Note:** we recommend using os_log directly as decribed [here](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/os/logging). Using os_log through swift-log using this backend will be less efficient and will also prevent specifying the privacy of the message. The backend always uses `%{public}@` as the format string and eagerly converts all string interpolations to strings.  This has two drawbacks: 1. the static components of the string interpolation would be eagerly copied by the unified logging system, which will result in loss of performance. 2. It makes all messages public, which changes the default privacy policy of os_log, and doesn't allow specifying fine-grained privacy of sections of the message.  In a separate on-going work, Swift APIs for os_log are being improved and made to align closely with swift-log APIs. References: [Unifying Logging Levels](https://forums.swift.org/t/custom-string-interpolation-and-compile-time-interpretation-applied-to-logging/18799), [Making os_log accept string interpolations using compile-time interpretation](https://forums.swift.org/t/logging-levels-for-swifts-server-side-logging-apis-and-new-os-log-apis/20365). |
| [Brainfinance/StackdriverLogging](https://github.com/Brainfinance/StackdriverLogging) | a structured JSON logging backend for use on Google Cloud Platform with the [Stackdriver logging agent](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/agent) | 
| [DnV1eX/GoogleCloudLogging](https://github.com/DnV1eX/GoogleCloudLogging) | a client-side library for logging application events in [Google Cloud](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs) via REST API v2. |
| [vapor/console-kit](https://github.com/vapor/console-kit/) | print log messages to a terminal with stylized ([ANSI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code)) output |
| [neallester/swift-log-testing](https://github.com/neallester/swift-log-testing) | provides access to log messages for use in assertions (within test targets) | 
| [wlisac/swift-log-slack](https://github.com/wlisac/swift-log-slack)  | a logging backend that sends critical log messages to Slack |
| [NSHipster/swift-log-github-actions](https://github.com/NSHipster/swift-log-github-actions) | a logging backend that translates logging messages into [workflow commands for GitHub Actions](https://help.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-commands-for-github-actions). |
| [stevapple/swift-log-telegram](https://github.com/stevapple/swift-log-telegram) | a logging backend that sends log messages to any Telegram chat (Inspired by and forked from [wlisac/swift-log-slack](https://github.com/wlisac/swift-log-slack)) |
| [jagreenwood/swift-log-datadog](https://github.com/jagreenwood/swift-log-datadog)  | a logging backend which sends log messages to the [Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/log-management/) log management service |
| Your library? | [Get in touch!](https://forums.swift.org/c/server) |

## What is an API package?

Glad you asked. We believe that for the Swift on Server ecosystem, it's crucial to have a logging API that can be adopted by anybody so a multitude of libraries from different parties can all log to a shared destination. More concretely this means that we believe all the log messages from all libraries end up in the same file, database, Elastic Stack/Splunk instance, or whatever you may choose.

In the real-world however, there are so many opinions over how exactly a logging system should behave, what a log message should be formatted like, and where/how it should be persisted. We think it's not feasible to wait for one logging package to support everything that a specific deployment needs whilst still being easy enough to use and remain performant. That's why we decided to cut the problem in half:

1. a logging API
2. a logging backend implementation

This package only provides the logging API itself and therefore `SwiftLog` is a 'logging API package'. `SwiftLog` (using `LoggingSystem.bootstrap`) can be configured to choose any compatible logging backend implementation. This way packages can adopt the API and the _application_ can choose any compatible logging backend implementation without requiring any changes from any of the libraries.

Just for completeness sake: This API package does actually include an overly simplistic and non-configurable logging backend implementation which simply writes all log messages to `stdout`. The reason to include this overly simplistic logging backend implementation is to improve the first-time usage experience. Let's assume you start a project and try out `SwiftLog` for the first time, it's just a whole lot better to see something you logged appear on `stdout` in a simplistic format rather than nothing happening at all. For any real-world application, we advise configuring another logging backend implementation that logs in the style you like.

## The core concepts

### Loggers

`Logger`s are used to emit log messages and therefore the most important type in `SwiftLog`, so their use should be as simple as possible.  Most commonly, they are used to emit log messages in a certain log level. For example:

```swift
// logging an informational message
logger.info("Hello World!")

// ouch, something went wrong
logger.error("Houston, we have a problem: \(problem)")
```

### Log levels

The following log levels are supported:

 - `trace`
 - `debug`
 - `info`
 - `notice`
 - `warning`
 - `error`
 - `critical`

The log level of a given logger can be changed, but the change will only affect the specific logger you changed it on. You could say the `Logger` is a _value type_ regarding the log level.


### Logging metadata

Logging metadata is metadata that can be attached to loggers to add information that is crucial when debugging a problem. In servers, the usual example is attaching a request UUID to a logger that will then be present on all log messages logged with that logger. Example:

```swift
var logger = logger
logger[metadataKey: "request-uuid"] = "\(UUID())"
logger.info("hello world")
```

will print

```
2019-03-13T18:30:02+0000 info: request-uuid=F8633013-3DD8-481C-9256-B296E43443ED hello world
```

with the default logging backend implementation that ships with `SwiftLog`. Needless to say, the format is fully defined by the logging backend you choose.

## On the implementation of a logging backend (a `LogHandler`)

Note: If you don't want to implement a custom logging backend, everything in this section is probably not very relevant, so please feel free to skip.

To become a compatible logging backend that all `SwiftLog` consumers can use, you need to do two things: 1) Implement a type (usually a `struct`) that implements `LogHandler`, a protocol provided by `SwiftLog` and 2) instruct `SwiftLog` to use your logging backend implementation.

A `LogHandler` or logging backend implementation is anything that conforms to the following protocol

```swift
public protocol LogHandler {
    func log(level: Logger.Level, message: Logger.Message, metadata: Logger.Metadata?, file: String, function: String, line: UInt)

    subscript(metadataKey _: String) -> Logger.Metadata.Value? { get set }

    var metadata: Logger.Metadata { get set }

    var logLevel: Logger.Level { get set }
}
```

Instructing `SwiftLog` to use your logging backend as the one the whole application (including all libraries) should use is very simple:

    LoggingSystem.bootstrap(MyLogHandler.init)

### Implementation considerations

`LogHandler`s control most parts of the logging system:

#### Under control of a `LogHandler`

##### Configuration

`LogHandler`s control the two crucial pieces of `Logger` configuration, namely:

- log level (`logger.logLevel` property)
- logging metadata (`logger[metadataKey:]` and `logger.metadata`)

For the system to work, however, it is important that `LogHandler` treat the configuration as _value types_. This means that `LogHandler`s should be `struct`s and a change in log level or logging metadata should only affect the very `LogHandler` it was changed on.

However, in special cases, it is acceptable that a `LogHandler` provides some global log level override that may affect all `LogHandler`s created.

##### Emitting
- emitting the log message itself

### Not under control of `LogHandler`s

`LogHandler`s do not control if a message should be logged or not. `Logger` will only invoke the `log` function of a `LogHandler` if `Logger` determines that a log message should be emitted given the configured log level.

## Source vs Label

A `Logger` carries an (immutable) `label` and each log message carries a `source` parameter (since SwiftLog 1.3.0). The `Logger`'s label
identifies the creator of the `Logger`. If you are using structured logging by preserving metadata across multiple modules, the `Logger`'s
`label` is not a good way to identify where a log message originated from as it identifies the creator of a `Logger` which is often passed
around between libraries to preserve metadata and the like.

If you want to filter all log messages originating from a certain subsystem, filter by `source` which defaults to the module that is emitting the
log message.

## SwiftLog for Swift 4
<a name="help-i-need-swift-4"></a>

First of, SwiftLog 1.0.x and SwiftLog 0.0.x are mostly compatible so don't be afraid. In fact, SwiftLog 0.0.0 is the same source code as SwiftLog 1.0.0 with a few changes made to make it Swift 4 compatible.

### How can I use SwiftLog 0 library or application?

If you have a application or a library that needs to be compatible with both Swift 4 and 5, then we recommend using the following in your `Package.swift`:

```swift
.package(url: "https://github.com/apple/swift-log.git", Version("0.0.0") ..< Version("2.0.0")),
```

This will instruct SwiftPM to allow any SwiftLog 0 and any SwiftLog 1 version. This is an unusual form because usually packages don't support multiple major versions of a package. Because SwiftLog 0 and 1 are mostly compatible however, this should not be a real issue and will enable everybody to get the best. If compiled with a Swift 4 compiler, this will be a SwiftLog 0 version but if compiled with a Swift 5 compiler everybody will get the best experience and performance delivered by SwiftLog 1.

In most cases, there is only one thing you need to remember: Always use _string literals_ and _string interpolations_ in the log methods and don't rely on the fact that SwiftLog 0 also allows `String`.

Good:

```swift
logger.info("hello world")
```

Bad:

```swift
let message = "hello world"
logger.info(message)
```

If you have a `String` that you received from elsewhere, please use

```swift
logger.info("\(stringIAlreadyHave)")
```

For more details, have a look in the next section.


### What are the differences between SwiftLog 1 and 0?

- SwiftLog 0 does not use `@inlinable`.
- Apart from accepting `Logger.Message` for the message, SwiftLog 0 has a `String` overload.
- In SwiftLog 0, `Logger.Message` is not `ExpressibleByStringLiteral` or `ExpressibleByStringInterpolation`.
- In SwiftLog 0, `Logger.MetadataValue` is not `ExpressibleByStringLiteral` or `ExpressibleByStringInterpolation`.

#### Why these differences?

##### @inlinable

Swift 4.0 & 4.1 don't support `@inlinable`, so SwiftLog 0 can't use them.

##### Logger.Message
Because all Swift 4 versions don't have a (non-deprecated) mechanism for a type to be `ExpressibleByStringInterpolation` we couldn't make `Logger.Message` expressible by string literals. Unfortunately, the most basic form of our logging API is `logger.info("Hello \(world)")`. For this to work however, `"Hello \(world)"` needs to be accepted and because we can't make `Logger.Message` `ExpressibleByStringInterpolation` we added an overload for all the logging methods to also accept `String`. In most cases, you won't even notice that with SwiftLog 0 you're creating a `String` (which is then transformed to a `Logger.Message`) and with SwiftLog 1 you're creating a `Logger.Message` directly. That is because both `String` and `Logger.Message` will accept all forms of string literals and string interpolations.
Unfortunately, there is code that will make this seemingly small difference visible. If you write

```swift
let message = "Hello world"
logger.info(message)
```

then this will only work in SwiftLog 0 and not in SwiftLog 1. Why? Because SwiftLog 1 will want a `Logger.Message` but `let message = "Hello world"` will make `message` to be of type `String` and in SwiftLog 1, the logging methods don't accept `String`s.

So if you intend to be compatible with SwiftLog 0 and 1 at the same time, please make sure to always use a _string literal_ or a _string interpolation_ inside of the logging methods.

In the case that you already have a `String` handy that you want to log, don't worry at all, just use

```swift
let message = "Hello world"
logger.info("\(message)")
```

and again, you will be okay with SwiftLog 0 and 1.

## Design

This logging API was designed with the contributors to the Swift on Server community and approved by the [SSWG (Swift Server Work Group)](https://swift.org/server/) to the 'sandbox level' of the SSWG's [incubation process](https://github.com/swift-server/sswg/blob/master/process/incubation.md).

- [pitch](https://forums.swift.org/t/logging/16027), [discussion](https://forums.swift.org/t/discussion-server-logging-api/18834), [feedback](https://forums.swift.org/t/feedback-server-logging-api-with-revisions/19375)
- [log levels](https://forums.swift.org/t/logging-levels-for-swifts-server-side-logging-apis-and-new-os-log-apis/20365)

[api-docs]: https://apple.github.io/swift-log/docs/current/Logging/Structs/Logger.html

Commit message:

Added SwiftLogFireCloud to available logging impls.

README.md, after:

# SwiftLog

A Logging API package for Swift. Version `1.0.0` requires Swift 5.0 but there is a version `0.x.y` series available for Swift 4 to ease your transition towards Swift 5. If you intend to use or support SwiftLog for Swift 4, please check the [paragraph](#help-i-need-swift-4) at the end of the document.

First things first: This is the beginning of a community-driven open-source project actively seeking contributions, be it code, documentation, or ideas. Apart from contributing to `SwiftLog` itself, there's another huge gap at the moment: `SwiftLog` is an _API package_ which tries to establish a common API the ecosystem can use. To make logging really work for real-world workloads, we need `SwiftLog`-compatible _logging backends_ which then either persist the log messages in files, render them in nicer colors on the terminal, or send them over to Splunk or ELK.

What `SwiftLog` provides today can be found in the [API docs][api-docs].

## Getting started

If you have a server-side Swift application, or maybe a cross-platform (for example Linux & macOS) app/library, and you would like to log, we think targeting this logging API package is a great idea. Below you'll find all you need to know to get started.

#### Adding the dependency

`SwiftLog` is designed for Swift 5, the `1.0.0` release requires Swift 5 (however we will soon tag a `0.x` version that will work with Swift 4 for the transition period). To depend on the logging API package, you need to declare your dependency in your `Package.swift`:

```swift
.package(url: "https://github.com/apple/swift-log.git", from: "1.0.0"),
```

and to your application/library target, add `"Logging"` to your `dependencies`, e.g. like this:

```swift
.target(name: "BestExampleApp", dependencies: ["Logging"]),
```

#### Let's log

```swift
// 1) let's import the logging API package
import Logging

// 2) we need to create a logger, the label works similarly to a DispatchQueue label
let logger = Logger(label: "com.example.BestExampleApp.main")

// 3) we're now ready to use it
logger.info("Hello World!")
```

#### Output

```
2019-03-13T15:46:38+0000 info: Hello World!
```

#### Default `Logger` behavior

`SwiftLog` provides for very basic console logging out-of-the-box by way of `StreamLogHandler`. It is possible to switch the default output to `stderr` like so:
```swift
LoggingSystem.bootstrap(StreamLogHandler.standardError)
```

`StreamLogHandler` is primarily a convenience only and does not provide any substantial customization. Library maintainers who aim to build their own logging backends for integration and consumption should implement the `LogHandler` protocol directly as laid out in [the "On the implementation of a logging backend" section](#on-the-implementation-of-a-logging-backend-a-loghandler).

For further information, please check the [API documentation][api-docs].

<a name="backends"></a>
#### Selecting a logging backend implementation (applications only)

As the API has just launched, not many implementations exist yet. If you are interested in implementing one see the "Implementation considerations" section below explaining how to do so. List of existing SwiftLog API compatible libraries:

| Repository | Handler Description|
| ----------- | ----------- |
| [IBM-Swift/HeliumLogger](https://github.com/IBM-Swift/HeliumLogger)  |a logging backend widely used in the Kitura ecosystem |
| [ianpartridge/swift-log-**syslog**](https://github.com/ianpartridge/swift-log-syslog) | a [syslog](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog) backend|
| [Adorkable/swift-log-**format-and-pipe**](https://github.com/Adorkable/swift-log-format-and-pipe) | a backend that allows customization of the output format and the resulting destination |
| [chrisaljoudi/swift-log-**oslog**](https://github.com/chrisaljoudi/swift-log-oslog) | an OSLog [Unified Logging](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/os/logging) backend for use on Apple platforms. **Important Note:** we recommend using os_log directly as decribed [here](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/os/logging). Using os_log through swift-log using this backend will be less efficient and will also prevent specifying the privacy of the message. The backend always uses `%{public}@` as the format string and eagerly converts all string interpolations to strings.  This has two drawbacks: 1. the static components of the string interpolation would be eagerly copied by the unified logging system, which will result in loss of performance. 2. It makes all messages public, which changes the default privacy policy of os_log, and doesn't allow specifying fine-grained privacy of sections of the message.  In a separate on-going work, Swift APIs for os_log are being improved and made to align closely with swift-log APIs. References: [Unifying Logging Levels](https://forums.swift.org/t/custom-string-interpolation-and-compile-time-interpretation-applied-to-logging/18799), [Making os_log accept string interpolations using compile-time interpretation](https://forums.swift.org/t/logging-levels-for-swifts-server-side-logging-apis-and-new-os-log-apis/20365). |
| [Brainfinance/StackdriverLogging](https://github.com/Brainfinance/StackdriverLogging) | a structured JSON logging backend for use on Google Cloud Platform with the [Stackdriver logging agent](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/agent) | 
| [DnV1eX/GoogleCloudLogging](https://github.com/DnV1eX/GoogleCloudLogging) | a client-side library for logging application events in [Google Cloud](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs) via REST API v2. |
| [vapor/console-kit](https://github.com/vapor/console-kit/) | print log messages to a terminal with stylized ([ANSI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code)) output |
| [neallester/swift-log-testing](https://github.com/neallester/swift-log-testing) | provides access to log messages for use in assertions (within test targets) | 
| [wlisac/swift-log-slack](https://github.com/wlisac/swift-log-slack)  | a logging backend that sends critical log messages to Slack |
| [NSHipster/swift-log-github-actions](https://github.com/NSHipster/swift-log-github-actions) | a logging backend that translates logging messages into [workflow commands for GitHub Actions](https://help.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-commands-for-github-actions). |
| [stevapple/swift-log-telegram](https://github.com/stevapple/swift-log-telegram) | a logging backend that sends log messages to any Telegram chat (Inspired by and forked from [wlisac/swift-log-slack](https://github.com/wlisac/swift-log-slack)) |
| [jagreenwood/swift-log-datadog](https://github.com/jagreenwood/swift-log-datadog)  | a logging backend which sends log messages to the [Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/log-management/) log management service |
| [google/SwiftLogFireCloud](https://github.com/google/swiftlogfirecloud)  | a logging backend which sends log messages as flat files to Firebase Cloud Storage buckets and developer configured sizes and time intervals. |
| Your library? | [Get in touch!](https://forums.swift.org/c/server) |

## What is an API package?

Glad you asked. We believe that for the Swift on Server ecosystem, it's crucial to have a logging API that can be adopted by anybody so a multitude of libraries from different parties can all log to a shared destination. More concretely this means that we believe all the log messages from all libraries end up in the same file, database, Elastic Stack/Splunk instance, or whatever you may choose.

In the real-world however, there are so many opinions over how exactly a logging system should behave, what a log message should be formatted like, and where/how it should be persisted. We think it's not feasible to wait for one logging package to support everything that a specific deployment needs whilst still being easy enough to use and remain performant. That's why we decided to cut the problem in half:

1. a logging API
2. a logging backend implementation

This package only provides the logging API itself and therefore `SwiftLog` is a 'logging API package'. `SwiftLog` (using `LoggingSystem.bootstrap`) can be configured to choose any compatible logging backend implementation. This way packages can adopt the API and the _application_ can choose any compatible logging backend implementation without requiring any changes from any of the libraries.

Just for completeness sake: This API package does actually include an overly simplistic and non-configurable logging backend implementation which simply writes all log messages to `stdout`. The reason to include this overly simplistic logging backend implementation is to improve the first-time usage experience. Let's assume you start a project and try out `SwiftLog` for the first time, it's just a whole lot better to see something you logged appear on `stdout` in a simplistic format rather than nothing happening at all. For any real-world application, we advise configuring another logging backend implementation that logs in the style you like.

## The core concepts

### Loggers

`Logger`s are used to emit log messages and therefore the most important type in `SwiftLog`, so their use should be as simple as possible.  Most commonly, they are used to emit log messages in a certain log level. For example:

```swift
// logging an informational message
logger.info("Hello World!")

// ouch, something went wrong
logger.error("Houston, we have a problem: \(problem)")
```

### Log levels

The following log levels are supported:

 - `trace`
 - `debug`
 - `info`
 - `notice`
 - `warning`
 - `error`
 - `critical`

The log level of a given logger can be changed, but the change will only affect the specific logger you changed it on. You could say the `Logger` is a _value type_ regarding the log level.


### Logging metadata

Logging metadata is metadata that can be attached to loggers to add information that is crucial when debugging a problem. In servers, the usual example is attaching a request UUID to a logger that will then be present on all log messages logged with that logger. Example:

```swift
var logger = logger
logger[metadataKey: "request-uuid"] = "\(UUID())"
logger.info("hello world")
```

will print

```
2019-03-13T18:30:02+0000 info: request-uuid=F8633013-3DD8-481C-9256-B296E43443ED hello world
```

with the default logging backend implementation that ships with `SwiftLog`. Needless to say, the format is fully defined by the logging backend you choose.

## On the implementation of a logging backend (a `LogHandler`)

Note: If you don't want to implement a custom logging backend, everything in this section is probably not very relevant, so please feel free to skip.

To become a compatible logging backend that all `SwiftLog` consumers can use, you need to do two things: 1) Implement a type (usually a `struct`) that implements `LogHandler`, a protocol provided by `SwiftLog` and 2) instruct `SwiftLog` to use your logging backend implementation.

A `LogHandler` or logging backend implementation is anything that conforms to the following protocol

```swift
public protocol LogHandler {
    func log(level: Logger.Level, message: Logger.Message, metadata: Logger.Metadata?, file: String, function: String, line: UInt)

    subscript(metadataKey _: String) -> Logger.Metadata.Value? { get set }

    var metadata: Logger.Metadata { get set }

    var logLevel: Logger.Level { get set }
}
```

Instructing `SwiftLog` to use your logging backend as the one the whole application (including all libraries) should use is very simple:

    LoggingSystem.bootstrap(MyLogHandler.init)

### Implementation considerations

`LogHandler`s control most parts of the logging system:

#### Under control of a `LogHandler`

##### Configuration

`LogHandler`s control the two crucial pieces of `Logger` configuration, namely:

- log level (`logger.logLevel` property)
- logging metadata (`logger[metadataKey:]` and `logger.metadata`)

For the system to work, however, it is important that `LogHandler` treat the configuration as _value types_. This means that `LogHandler`s should be `struct`s and a change in log level or logging metadata should only affect the very `LogHandler` it was changed on.

However, in special cases, it is acceptable that a `LogHandler` provides some global log level override that may affect all `LogHandler`s created.

##### Emitting
- emitting the log message itself

### Not under control of `LogHandler`s

`LogHandler`s do not control if a message should be logged or not. `Logger` will only invoke the `log` function of a `LogHandler` if `Logger` determines that a log message should be emitted given the configured log level.

## Source vs Label

A `Logger` carries an (immutable) `label` and each log message carries a `source` parameter (since SwiftLog 1.3.0). The `Logger`'s label
identifies the creator of the `Logger`. If you are using structured logging by preserving metadata across multiple modules, the `Logger`'s
`label` is not a good way to identify where a log message originated from as it identifies the creator of a `Logger` which is often passed
around between libraries to preserve metadata and the like.

If you want to filter all log messages originating from a certain subsystem, filter by `source` which defaults to the module that is emitting the
log message.

## SwiftLog for Swift 4
<a name="help-i-need-swift-4"></a>

First of, SwiftLog 1.0.x and SwiftLog 0.0.x are mostly compatible so don't be afraid. In fact, SwiftLog 0.0.0 is the same source code as SwiftLog 1.0.0 with a few changes made to make it Swift 4 compatible.

### How can I use SwiftLog 0 library or application?

If you have a application or a library that needs to be compatible with both Swift 4 and 5, then we recommend using the following in your `Package.swift`:

```swift
.package(url: "https://github.com/apple/swift-log.git", Version("0.0.0") ..< Version("2.0.0")),
```

This will instruct SwiftPM to allow any SwiftLog 0 and any SwiftLog 1 version. This is an unusual form because usually packages don't support multiple major versions of a package. Because SwiftLog 0 and 1 are mostly compatible however, this should not be a real issue and will enable everybody to get the best. If compiled with a Swift 4 compiler, this will be a SwiftLog 0 version but if compiled with a Swift 5 compiler everybody will get the best experience and performance delivered by SwiftLog 1.

In most cases, there is only one thing you need to remember: Always use _string literals_ and _string interpolations_ in the log methods and don't rely on the fact that SwiftLog 0 also allows `String`.

Good:

```swift
logger.info("hello world")
```

Bad:

```swift
let message = "hello world"
logger.info(message)
```

If you have a `String` that you received from elsewhere, please use

```swift
logger.info("\(stringIAlreadyHave)")
```

For more details, have a look in the next section.


### What are the differences between SwiftLog 1 and 0?

- SwiftLog 0 does not use `@inlinable`.
- Apart from accepting `Logger.Message` for the message, SwiftLog 0 has a `String` overload.
- In SwiftLog 0, `Logger.Message` is not `ExpressibleByStringLiteral` or `ExpressibleByStringInterpolation`.
- In SwiftLog 0, `Logger.MetadataValue` is not `ExpressibleByStringLiteral` or `ExpressibleByStringInterpolation`.

#### Why these differences?

##### @inlinable

Swift 4.0 & 4.1 don't support `@inlinable`, so SwiftLog 0 can't use them.

##### Logger.Message
Because all Swift 4 versions don't have a (non-deprecated) mechanism for a type to be `ExpressibleByStringInterpolation` we couldn't make `Logger.Message` expressible by string literals. Unfortunately, the most basic form of our logging API is `logger.info("Hello \(world)")`. For this to work however, `"Hello \(world)"` needs to be accepted and because we can't make `Logger.Message` `ExpressibleByStringInterpolation` we added an overload for all the logging methods to also accept `String`. In most cases, you won't even notice that with SwiftLog 0 you're creating a `String` (which is then transformed to a `Logger.Message`) and with SwiftLog 1 you're creating a `Logger.Message` directly. That is because both `String` and `Logger.Message` will accept all forms of string literals and string interpolations.
Unfortunately, there is code that will make this seemingly small difference visible. If you write

```swift
let message = "Hello world"
logger.info(message)
```

then this will only work in SwiftLog 0 and not in SwiftLog 1. Why? Because SwiftLog 1 will want a `Logger.Message` but `let message = "Hello world"` will make `message` to be of type `String` and in SwiftLog 1, the logging methods don't accept `String`s.

So if you intend to be compatible with SwiftLog 0 and 1 at the same time, please make sure to always use a _string literal_ or a _string interpolation_ inside of the logging methods.

In the case that you already have a `String` handy that you want to log, don't worry at all, just use

```swift
let message = "Hello world"
logger.info("\(message)")
```

and again, you will be okay with SwiftLog 0 and 1.

## Design

This logging API was designed with the contributors to the Swift on Server community and approved by the [SSWG (Swift Server Work Group)](https://swift.org/server/) to the 'sandbox level' of the SSWG's [incubation process](https://github.com/swift-server/sswg/blob/master/process/incubation.md).

- [pitch](https://forums.swift.org/t/logging/16027), [discussion](https://forums.swift.org/t/discussion-server-logging-api/18834), [feedback](https://forums.swift.org/t/feedback-server-logging-api-with-revisions/19375)
- [log levels](https://forums.swift.org/t/logging-levels-for-swifts-server-side-logging-apis-and-new-os-log-apis/20365)

[api-docs]: https://apple.github.io/swift-log/docs/current/Logging/Structs/Logger.html
